
marooned one cr3+

This poor soul was abandoned and left to die on a deserted asteroid, derelict ship, or other remote location.

Required Creature Type: Undead.

Required Array: Expert.

Traits: Blindsight (life) 60 feet; life-support sabotage and strangle (use standard melee damage for CR) special abilities (see page 76); +1/2 (CR bonus to Fortitude saves; Computers, Engineering, and Stealth as master skills.

Suggested Ability Score Modifiers: Strength, Dexterity, Intelligence.

NECROVITE TEMPLATE GRAFT (CR 7+)
A spellcaster with this template graft has used a terrifying combination of magic and technology to transform itself into an undead abomination.

Required Creature Type: Undead.

Required Array: Spellcaster.

Traits: Fast healing, fatigue aura (see page 80), immunity to cold and electricity, rejuvenation (see page 80), undead mastery (see page 80), two technomancer magic hacks or mystic connection powers by CR; Bluff, Computers, Mysticism, and Sense Motive as master skills; can choose spells from both the mystic and technomancer lists.

Suggested Ability Score Modifiers: Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma.

NIHILI TEMPLATE GRAFT (CR 3+)
Any breathing creature can die in the pitiless vacuum of space, whether because of a hull breach, being forced out of an airlock, or having its space suit run out of power while on an airless asteroid. Use the following template graft (see page 141) to create a unique nihili of any CR.

Required Creature Type: Undead.

Traits: Increase ability save DCs by 2.

Abilities: Decompression gaze (see page 82, damage as ranged energy damage of 2 CRs lower), gravity well (see page 82).

Suggested Ability Score Modifiers: Strength, Dexterity.

Cybernetic Zombie Template Graft

This mindless undead is animated not through magic or supernatural phenomena but by cybernetic implants in its body, which continue to function after its mind and flesh have died.

Required Creature Type: Undead.

Required Array: Combatant.

Traits: Vulnerability to electricity; mindless.

Abilities: Self-destruct (see above).

Suggested Ability Score Modifiers: Strength, Dexterity.

Occult Zombie Template Graft

This mindless undead has been animated via a necromantic or supernatural phenomena, and it is often created or controlled by a powerful spellcaster or a greater undead creature.

Required Creature Type: Undead.

Required Array: Combatant.

Traits: Has 20% more Hit Points for its CR; DR 5/magic (increase to DR 10 at (CR 8 and DR 15 at (CR 14); mindless; staggered (see page 114).

Suggested Ability Score Modifiers: Strength, Dexterity.

Skeletal Undead Template Graft

Faster than other mindless undead, a skeletal undead is animated by necromantic or supernatural phenomena, and it is often found wearing armor or wielding weapons it was trained to use in life.

Required Creature Type: Undead.

Required Array: Combatant.

Traits: DR 5/magic (increase to DR 10 at (CR 8 and DR 15 at (CR 14); immunity to cold; mindless.

Suggested Ability Score Modifiers: Strength, Dexterity.

SMASH-ARM TEMPLATE GRAFT
The smash-arm template grafts can be used to create a creature bonded to a symbiend; at the GM’s discretion, a PC can also bond with a symbiend, ignoring the array requirements and suggested ability score modifiers. A symbiend counts as an augmentation that is “installed” in the listed systems, though a removed symbiend can be used by another creature (unlike normal augmentations). Symbiends can’t be purchased or sold (at least, not in reputable settlements).

This arthropod burrows its many tiny legs into a host’s flesh to sip on various hormones, especially epinephrine. These extremely aggressive symbiends bond almost exclusively to predators and are popular among pirates and warlords, as the constant trickle of adrenaline they create results in vicious, fearless soldiers. Bloodshot eyes, bulging veins, and a tendency to froth at the mouth.

Required Creature Type: Aberration, animal, dragon, humanoid, magical beast, or monstrous humanoid.

Required Array: Combatant.

Traits: EAC and KAC increases by 1; +4 morale bonus to Athletics and Intimidate checks; unarmed strikes deal lethal damage, don’t count as archaic, and gain a unique weapon specialization that adds 1-1/2 × (CR or character level to damage.

Abilities: Frothing rage 1/day.

Frothing Rage (Ex): As a swift action, the creature gains a number of temporary Hit Points equal to the host’s (CR or character level and gains the ability to make three attacks when making a full attack, though each attack takes a –5 penalty (instead of a –4 penalty). The rage lasts for a number of rounds equal to the host’s (CR or character level, after which the host is fatigued for 10 minutes.

Drawbacks: –2 penalty to Intelligence-based skill checks, Diplomacy checks, and Will saving throws against effects with the emotion descriptor.

Systems: Brain, arms (all).

Suggested Ability Score Modifiers: Strength, Constitution.

Dream Peddler Template Graft
These fleshy creatures bond to a host’s back and sink fine filaments into the host’s brain to trigger its pleasure centers, “sweetening” their meal and triggering psychic abilities.

Their hosts enjoy a mild euphoria, but they also become less motivated and more risk-averse, making this symbiend unpopular outside of drug dens and religious communes.

Required Creature Type: Aberration, animal, dragon, humanoid, magical beast, or monstrous humanoid.

Required Array: Expert or spellcaster.

Traits: +2 morale bonus to Will saving throws and Wisdom-based skill checks; limited telepathy (30 feet); immunity to effects that disrupt or control dreams; can fall asleep at will.

Spell-Like Abilities: Psychokinetic hand and telekinetic projectile at will and lesser confusion (CR 10+ or 10th-level character, replace with confusion) 3/day.

Drawbacks: –2 penalty to initiative checks and Strength– and Dexterity-based skill checks.

Systems: Brain, spinal column.

Suggested Ability Score Modifiers: Wisdom, Charisma.

Paragon Template Graft
This tiny creature burrows its bony head into the flesh of its host’s chest like a tick. Redundant organs in the symbiend’s body function as a tiny laboratory, boosting its host’s intelligence and pheromone production, which takes its toll on the host’s body. Paragons are among the few symbiends able to communicate directly with their hosts. The paragon can withdraw its bonuses from disobedient hosts, and it can even cause pain or random hallucinations to compel behavior.

Required Creature Type: Aberration, animal, dragon, humanoid, magical beast, or monstrous humanoid.

Traits: +1 morale bonus to saving throws; +2 morale bonus to Charisma-based skills; additional master skill or skill rank per character level.

Drawbacks: Reduce maximum HP by an amount equal to (CR or character level; when attempting Constitution checks for long-term stability, must roll twice and take the worse result.

Systems: Brain, heart.

Suggested Ability Score Modifiers: Intelligence, Charisma.

Elemental Grafts

The four types of elementals are listed below.

Required Creature Type: Outsider; Required Creature Subtype: Elemental.

Air Elemental Graft

Beings of living wind, air elementals originate from the Elemental Plane of Air.

Traits: Air subtype, supernatural fly speed of 100 feet (perfect); Abilities: Air mastery (see below), whirlwind; Feats: Flyby Attack; Languages: Auran.

Air Mastery (Ex): Airborne creatures take a −1 penalty to attack and damage rolls against an air elemental.

Earth Elemental Graft

Hailing from the Elemental Plane of Earth, earth elementals are ponderous and obstinate.

Traits: Earth subtype, blindsense (vibration) 60 feet, burrow speed of 20 feet; Abilities: Earth glide, earth mastery (see below); Languages: Terran.

Earth Mastery (Ex): An earth elemental gains a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls if both it and its foe are touching the solid surface of a planet or an asteroid. If an opponent is airborne or waterborne, the elemental takes a −2 penalty to attack and damage rolls. These modifiers apply to initiating or resisting bull rush combat maneuvers.

Fire Elemental Graft

Born of the twisting flames of the Elemental Plane of Fire, fire elementals are nimble and impatient.

Traits: Fire subtype, a +4 bonus to initiative checks, speed increases by 30 feet, immunity to fire and vulnerability to cold; Abilities: Burning strikes (see below); Feats: Mobility; Languages: Ignan.

Burning Strikes (Ex): A fire elemental’s slams deal half fire damage and half bludgeoning damage. In addition, on a critical hit, the fire elemental’s strikes deal an amount of burn damage based on the creature’s CR, as listed in the table below.

CR Burn Damage

1−5 1d4

6−10 2d4

11−15 3d4

16+ 4d4

Water Elemental Graft

Composed of either freshwater or salt water, these elementals hail from the Elemental Plane of Water.

Traits: Water subtype, swim speed of 90 feet; Abilities: Drench (see below), vortex, water mastery (see below); Languages: Aquan.

Drench (Ex): A water elemental’s touch douses Large or smaller nonmagical flames. The outsider can dispel magical fire it touches as per dispel magic (caster level = the elemental’s CR).

Water Mastery (Ex): Waterborne creatures take a −1 penalty to attack and damage rolls against a water elemental.
